#  :globe_with_meridians: :computer: :closed_lock_with_key: CEH - Knowledges
CEH certification :milky_way:

This repository is here to help pass the CEH. Not everything is here, but it based on my knowledges and what I needed to improve to pass the certification.
The terminology and the information are from :
- Udemy: CEH v11 312-50: Certified Ethical Hacker Practice Exams. NEW (Good questions and answers well explained)

## :wrench: TOOLS

**Nmap** – to scan open port (old name was Ethereal)   

    -sS (TCP SYN (Stealth) Scan). It is the fastest and most popular way to scan a target. It uses the SYN scan which is unobtrusive and stealthy as it never 
    -sT (TCP Connect Scan). When SYN scan is not an option, and we don't have raw packets priv. or we want to scan IPv6 network. It establishes a connection with     
    the target machine and port with a handshake. It uses the Berkley Sockets API. However nmap uses this API to obtain status information on each connection attempt.
    -F (Fast (limited port) scan). It scans normally 1000 most common port but here it is reduced to 100.
    complete the full TCP handshake connexion. It also allows clear, reliable differentiation between open, closed, and filtered states.
    -sU (UDP Scan). It is generaly slower but we should'nt neglect the UDC ports. DNS, SNMP, and DHCP (registered ports 53, 161/162, and 67/68) are three of the most common.
    -sM (TCP Maimon Scan). Named after its discoverer, Uriel Maimon. Same as NULL, FIN, and Xmas scan, except that the probe is FIN/ACK. We send the FIN/ACK and a response   
    RST should be send. However if the port is OPEN/FILTERED, it often drop the packet.
  
**Tcpdump** – wireshark but for CLI (no graphic)

**Nessus** – scan automatically vulnerabilities in a network. We can create session splicing as well with it.

## :warning: ATTACKS

### Footprinting

**Reconnaissance stage** - a set of processes and techniques (Footprinting, Scanning & Enumeration) to discover and collect information about a target system covertly. There is passive and active recon. passive is just sniffing (not interacting directly with the network) while active is for example scanning ports.

### Scan

**TCP Connect/Full Open Scan** - In TCP Connect scanning, the OS’s TCP connect() system call tries to open a connection to every port of interest on the target machine. It is one of the most reliable forms of TCP scanning by completing a three-way handshake.

**NULL Scan** - The Null Scan is a type of TCP scan that hackers — both ethical and malicious — use to identify listening TCP ports. It can help identify potential holes for server hardening.

**Xmas scan** - It is considered a stealthy scan which analyzes responses to Xmas packets to determine the nature of the replying device. Each operating system or network device responds in a different way to Xmas packets revealing local information such as OS (Operating System), port state and more.

**Half-open scann** - It is referred to as an SYN scan it’s a fast and sneaky scan that tries to find potential open ports on the target computer. This scan is fast and hard to detect because it never completes the full TCP 3 way-handshake. The scanner sends an SYN message and just notes the SYN-ACK responses. The scanner doesn’t complete the connection by sending the final ACK: it leaves the target hanging. Any SYN-ACK responses are possibly open ports. An RST (reset) is a closed port.

**IDLE/IPID Scanning** - We use a zombie to send a SYN/ACK packet and it increments it's IPID while sending a reset. We do the same for another PC but we change the source for the zombie. We do that again to the zombie and if the IPID has been incremented 2 times, it means the port is open.

**SSDP Scanning** - (Simple Service Discovery Protocol) is the basis of the discovery protocol of Universal Plug and Play (UPnP) and is intended for use in residential or small office environments.

**UDP Scanning** - send a UDP packet to various ports on the target host. We use it with nmap to scan UDP ports (the same as TCP ports).

**SYN/FIN scanning** - Use IP fragments in a process of scanning that was developed to avoid false positives generated by other scans because of a packet filtering device on the target system. The TCP header splits into several packets to evade the packet filter.

**ACK scanning** - It does not exactly determine whether the port is open or closed, but whether the port is filtered or unfiltered. This is especially good when attempting to probe for the existence of a firewall.

**ICMP scanning** - ICMP is used for checking live systems.

**Banner Grabbing** -  technique used to gain information about a computer system on a network and the services running on its open ports. We often use nmap for this and those services : HTTP (80), FTP (21) or SMTP (25).

**Firewalking** - Firewalking is the method of determining the movement of a data packet from an untrusted external host to a protected internal host through a firewall. 
It uses traceroute and TTL (Time to Live) to analyze IP packet response to in order to determine gateway ACL (Access Control List) filters and map network. The idea 
behind firewalking is to determine which ports are open and whether packets with control information can pass through a packet-filtering device. It is an active 
reconnaissance network security analysis technique that attempts to determine which layer 4 protocols a specific firewall will allow.

### Mail

**Email spoofing** - the fabrication of an email header in the hopes of duping the recipient into thinking the email originated from someone or somewhere other than the intended source.

**Email Masquerading** - the perpetrator assumes the identity of a fellow network user or co-employee to trick victims into providing user credentials. On the contrary of email spoofing, this is done from inside the network from a stolen account.

**Email Harvesting** - the process of obtaining lists of email addresses.

**Email Phishing** - a type of social engineering attack often used to steal user data, including login credentials and credit card numbers.

### SQL injection
  
 **Tautology** – use of a conditional OR clause in order to have a query always TRUE.
(select * from user_details where userid = 'abcd' and password = 'anything' or 'x'='x')
  
**Error-based** - insert malicious query in input fields and get some error which is regarding SQL syntax or database.
  
**Union** - the UNION keyword can be used to retrieve data from other tables within the database.
(SELECT a, b FROM table1 UNION SELECT c, d FROM table2)

**End-of-Line Comment** - the code is nullified with a end of line comments.
(SELECT * FROM user WHERE name = 'x' AND userid IS NULL; --';)

### Router

**Traffic redirection** - the attacker modifies traffic in transit or sniff packets.

**Traffic sent to a routing black hole** - the traffic can be redirected to null0 and can kick an IP.

**Unauthorized route prefix origination** - It introduces a new prefix into the routing table. Used to get a covert attack network to be routable throughout the victim network.

### Cryptography

**Trickery and Deceit** – it involves the use of social engineering techniques to extract cryptography keys.

**One-Time Pad** – a one-time pad contains many non-repeating groups of letters or number keys, which are chosen randomly.

**Frequency Analysis** – It is the study of the frequency or letters or groups of letters in a cipher text. It works on the fact that, in any given stretch of written language, certain letters and combination of letters occur with varying frequencies.

### WIFI

**aLTEr** - MITM attack using a fake eNodeB (the 4G cell tower). It acts as a malicious relay and the attacker has access to the encrypted communication of the target. Furthermore the information can be manipulated. The goal is to alter the IP of the DNS querry to redirect the trafic to a malicious DNS. Thus the server replies maliciously from a request.

**Sinkhole** - The attack is carried out by either hacking a node in the network or introducing a fabricated node in the network.The malicious node promotes itself as the shortest path to the base station and tries to guide the traffic from other nodes towards itself. Then the intruder can compromise the data.

**Wi-jacking** - An attack in which attackers accesss neighbor’s WiFi without any form of cracking, relying on saved browsers creadentials which are reused again for the same URL (router admin interface credentials remembered by the browser).

### Bluetooth

**Bluedriving** - This tool is to research about the targeted surveillance of people by means of its cellular phone or car. It can search for and show a lot 
of information about the device, the GPS address and the historic location of devices on a map.

**Bluejacking** - It sends unsolocited messages over bluetooth. IT is generally harmless. Usually, a bluejacker will only send a text message, but it's possible 
to send images or sounds with modern phones. Bluejacking has been used in guerrilla marketing campaigns to promote advergames.

**Bluesmacking** - It is denial of service (DoS). The crafted packet exceed the limited size available on bluetooth. The devince cannot process the packet 
and the it becomes unavailable.

**Bluesnarfing** - The unauthorized access of information from a wireless device through a Bluetooth connection. This allows access to calendars, contact lists, emails and text messages, and on some phones, users can copy pictures and private videos. 

**Bluebugging** - It was developed after the onset of bluejacking and bluesnarfing. Similar to bluesnarfing, bluebugging accesses and uses all phone featuresbut is limited by the transmitting power of class 2 Bluetooth radios, normally capping its range at 10–15 meters.

### Cloud

**Cloud Hopper** - This is an operation uncovered by security researchers in 2017. The attacks were leveled against managed IT service providers, which the group used as intermediaries to get their hands on their target’s corporate assets and trade secrets.

**Cloudborne** - An attack scenario affecting various cloud providers could allow an attacker to implant persistent backdoors for data theft into bare-metal cloud servers, which would be able to remain intact as the cloud infrastructure moves from customer to customer.

### Web

**Session Hijacking** - Also known as cookie hijacking, it exploits a valid computer session to gain unauthorized access. The HTTP cookies can be stolen by an intermediary computer or access to the saved cookies on the victim's computer.

**Insecure direct object references** - IDOR are a cybersecurity issue that occurs when a web application developer uses an identifier for direct access to an internal implementation object but provides no additional access control and/or authorization checks (e.g. https://www.example.com/transaction.php?id=74656, there is no check on the id provided).

**Wrapping attacks** - Injecting a faked element into the message structure so that a valid signature covers the unmodified element while the faked one is processed by the application logic. This type of attack usually occurs during the translation of SOAP messages in the Transport Layer Service (TLS) layer between the web server and valid user. The message body will be duplicated and sent to the server as a valid user.

**Cross-site request forgery** - (CSRF) also known as one-click attack or session riding. This is a type of malicious exploit of a website where unauthorized commands are submitted from a user that the web application trusts.

### USB

**Juice jacking** - An infected USB charging station is used to compromise linked devices.

### Social Engineering

**Tailgating** - Also known as Piggybacking. It involves an attacker seeking entry to a restricted area that lacks the proper authentication.

**Pretexting** - The practice of presenting oneself as someone else to obtain private information. Usually, attackers create a fake identity and use it to manipulate the receipt of information.

**Reverse Social Engineering** - A reverse social engineering attack is a person-to-person attack in which an attacker convinces the target that he or she has a problem or might have a certain problem in the future and that he, the attacker, is ready to help solve the problem.

**Shoulder-Surfing** - This is a type of social engineering technique used to obtain information such as personal identification numbers (PINs), passwords and other confidential data by looking over the victim's shoulder.

### Network

**Sybil attack** -  This is defined as a small number of entities counterfeiting multiple peer identities so as to compromise a disproportionate share of the system.

**WHOIS** - is a query and response protocol that is widely used for querying databases that store the registered users or assignees of an Internet resource, such as a domain name, an IP address block or an autonomous system, but is also used for a wider range of other information.

**Session splicing** - One basic technique is to split the attack payload into multiple small packets so that the IDS must reassemble the packet stream to detect the attack. By itself, small packets will not evade any IDS that reassembles packet streams. However, small packets can be further modified in order to complicate reassembly and detection. One evasion technique is to pause between sending parts of the attack, hoping that the IDS will time out before the target computer does.

**Unicode evasion** - Using Unicode representation, where each character has a unique value regardless of the platform, program, or language, is also an effective way to evade IDSs. For example, an attacker might evade an IDS by using the Unicode character c1 to represent a slash for a Web page request.

**Flood attack** - Flood attacks are also known as Denial of Service (DoS) attacks.

**Low-bandwidth attacks** - Attacks which are spread out across a long period of time or a large number of source IPs, such as nmap's slow scan, can be difficult to pick out of the background of benign traffic. An online password cracker which tests one password for each user every day will look nearly identical to a normal user who mistyped their password.

**Heartbleed** - This is a security bug in the OpenSSL cryptography library, which is a widely used implementation of the Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol. It results from improper input validation (due to a missing bounds check) in the implementation of the TLS heartbeat extension. It is a buffer over-read vuln.

**SSL/TLS Renegotiation Vulnerability** - It allows one part of an encrypted connection (the one taking place before renegotiation) to be controlled by one party with the other part (the one taking place after renegotiation) to be controlled by another. A MITM attacker can open a connection to an SSL server, send some data, request renegotiation, and, from that point on, continue to forward to the SSL server the data coming from a genuine user.

### Others

**Side-channel** - This is an attack based on information gained from the implementation of a computer system. Timing information, power consumption, electromagnetic leaks or even sound can provide an extra source of information, which can be exploited.

**Exploit Kits** - An exploit kit is simply a collection of exploits, which is a simple one-in-all tool for managing a variety of exploits altogether. Exploit kits act as a kind of repository and make it easy for users without much technical knowledge to use exploits.

**Shellshock** - Also known as Bashdoor. It is a security bug in the Unix Bash shell. Shellshock could enable an attacker to cause Bash to execute arbitrary commands and gain unauthorized access to many Internet-facing services, such as web servers, that use Bash to process requests.

**POODLE** - Padding Oracle On Downgraded Legacy Encryption - It is a man-in-the-middle exploit which takes advantage of Internet and security software clients' fallback to SSL 3.0. If attackers successfully exploit this vulnerability, on average, they only need to make 256 SSL 3.0 requests to reveal one byte of encrypted messages.

## :lock: SECURITY

### WIFI

**MAC filtering** – listing of allowed devices that you need on your Wi-Fi. Helps preventing unwanted access to the network.

### Router

    Counter methods:
    - Configuration modification : We must secure the router and the supporting system it makes use of, such as TFTP servers (used to upgrade several routers that   
    are separated from the TFTP server by slow WAN connections).
    - Introduction of a rogue router that : The other routing devices must trust the send information. We can block it by adding message authentication to the routing   
    protocol. And we can also add ACLs to block routing protocol messages unwanted.
    - Spoofing a valid routing protocol message or modifying a valid message in transit. We can prevent it with message authentication as well. And if we have a transport    
    layer protocol like TCP for BGP, it can render the task difficult due to the pseudo-random initial sequence numbers.
    - Sending of malformed or excess packets. Excess packets can be stopped with DoS mitigation techniques. Malformed packets are harder to identify. This is     
    an area of computer security that needs increased attention, not just in routing protocols but in all network applications.

## Cryptography

**Quantum cryptography** - The science of exploiting quantum mechanical properties to perform cryptographic tasks. The advantage of quantum cryptography lies in the fact that it allows the completion of various cryptographic tasks that are proven or conjectured to be impossible using only classical (i.e. non-quantum) communication. For example, it is impossible to copy data encoded in a quantum state. If one attempts to read the encoded data, the quantum state will be changed (no-cloning theorem). This could be used to detect eavesdropping in quantum key distribution.

**Hardware-based** - This is the use of computer hardware to assist software, or sometimes replace software, in the process of data encryption (e.g. AES).

**Homomorphic** - This is a form of encryption that permits users to perform computations on its encrypted data without first decrypting it.

**Elliptic-curve** - This is an approach to public-key cryptography based on the algebraic structure of elliptic curves over finite fields. ECC allows smaller keys compared to non-EC cryptography (based on plain Galois fields) to provide equivalent security

## Firewall

**Software Firewall** - It is placed between the normal application and the networking components of the operating system and regulates data traffic through two things: port numbers, and applications. Depending on your firewall settings, your firewall could stop programs from accessing the Internet, and/or block incoming or outgoing access via ports.

## Incident handling

**Preparation** - During the preparation phase, organizations should establish policies and procedures for incident response management and enable efficient communication methods both before and after the incident.

**Identification** - The identification phase of an incident response plan involves determining whether or not an organization has been breached.

**Containment** - If it is discovered that a breach has occurred, organizations should work fast to contain the event. However, this should be done appropriately and does not require all sensitive data to be deleted from the system. Instead, strategies should be developed to contain the breach and prevent it from spreading further.

**Neutralization** - Once all systems and devices that have been impacted by the breach have been identified, an organization should perform a coordinated shutdown.

**Recovery** - Recovery plan involves restoring all affected systems and devices to allow for normal operations to continue. However, before getting systems back up and running, it is vital to ensure that the breach's cause has been identified to prevent another breach from occurring again.

**Review** - Throughout the incident, all details should have been properly documented so that the information can be used to prevent similar breaches in the future.

## :floppy_disk: PROTOCOLS

**Telnet** – use TCP - does not encrypt, no authentication, several vulnerabilities.

**Quantum coin flipping** - It is used between two participants who do not trust each other. The participants communicate via a quantum channel and exchange information through the transmission of qubits.

## :closed_book: TERMINOLOGY

**MBSA** - Microsoft Baseline Security Analyzer - is a software tool that helps determine the security of your Windows computer based on Microsoft’s security recommendations.

**WAP** - Wireless Access Point – use 802.11 

**HIPAA** - Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act - It was created primarily to modernize the flow of healthcare information, stipulate how personally identifiable information maintained by the healthcare and healthcare insurance industries should be protected from fraud and theft.

**FISMA** - The Federal Information Security Management Act - The act requires each federal agency to develop, document, and implement an agency-wide program to provide information security. 

**ISO/IEC 27002** - is an information security standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC). It comes from the ISO 27000 serie. 

**COBIT** - Control Objectives for Information and Related Technologies - Created by ISACA (Information Systems Audit and Control Association). It defines a set of 
generic processes for the management of IT, with each process defined together with process inputs and outputs, key process-activities, process objectives, performance measures and an elementary maturity model.

**IANA** - The Internet Assigned Numbers Authority - This is a standards organization that oversees global IP address allocation, autonomous system number allocation, root zone management in the Domain Name System (DNS), media types, and other Internet Protocol-related symbols and Internet numbers.

**IETF** - The Internet Engineering Task Force - This is an open standards organization, which develops and promotes voluntary Internet standards, in particular the standards that comprise the Internet protocol suite (TCP/IP).

**SOAP** - Simple Object Access Protocol - A lightweight XML-based protocol that is used for the exchange of information in decentralized, distributed application environments. You can transmit SOAP messages in any way that the applications require, as long as both the client and the server use the same method.

**802.11a** - It operates in the 5 GHz band with a maximum net data rate of 54 Mbit/s, plus error correction code, which yields realistic net achievable throughput in the mid-20 Mbit/s. Published in 1999.

**802.11g** - works in the 2.4 GHz band (like 802.11b), but uses the same OFDM based transmission scheme as 802.11a. It operates at a maximum physical layer bit rate of 54 Mbit/s exclusive of forward error correction codes, or about 22 Mbit/s average throughput. Compatible with 802.11b. Published in 2003.

**802.11i** - Implemented as Wi-Fi Protected Access II (WPA2). This standard specifies security mechanisms for wireless networks, replacing the short Authentication and privacy clause. It deprecated broken Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP). Published in 2004.

**802.11n** - It operates on both the 2.4 GHz and the 5 GHz bands. Support for 5 GHz bands is optional. Its net data rate ranges from 54 Mbit/s to 600 Mbit/s. Published in 2006.

**Vulnerability scans** - They check for vulnerabilities in your system and report potential exposures. It is automated.

**Penetration tests** - They are intended to exploit weaknesses in the architecture of your IT network and determine the degree to which a malicious attacker can gain unauthorized access to your assets. It is done manually.

**anomaly-based IDS** - An anomaly-based intrusion detection system is an intrusion detection system for detecting both network and computer intrusions and misuse by monitoring system activity and classifying it as either normal or anomalous. The classification is based on heuristics or rules, rather than patterns or signatures.

**signature-based IDS** - It monitors inbound network traffic to find sequences and patterns that match a particular attack signature.

**RSA** - (Rivest–Shamir–Adleman) It is a public-key cryptosystem that is widely used for secure data transmission. An RSA user creates and publishes a public key based on two large prime numbers, along with an auxiliary value. The prime numbers are kept secret. Messages can be encrypted by anyone, via the public key, but can only be decoded by someone who knows the prime numbers.

**MD5** - It is a widely used hash function producing a 128-bit hash value. Although MD5 was initially designed to be used as a cryptographic hash function, it has been found to suffer from extensive vulnerabilities. It can still be used as a checksum to verify data integrity, but only against unintentional corruption.

**SHA-1** - (Secure Hash Algorithm 1) It is a cryptographic hash function which takes an input and produces a 160-bit (20-byte) hash value known as a message digest – typically rendered as a hexadecimal number, 40 digits long.

**RC5** - (Rivest Cipher) It is a symmetric-key block cipher notable for its simplicity. The Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) candidate RC6 was based on RC5.

## :bulb: MANAGEMENT

**AV** - Asset value - The cost of the hardware and the person who repair it (and the time to fix).

**EF** - Exposure factore - The impact of the risk over the asset, or percentage of asset lost.

**SLE** - Single Loss Expectancy - AV * EF

**ARO** - Annual rate of occurrence - The expected value (cost) of a yearly occurrence of incidents of given type (e.g. the chance of a HW to have a failure).

**ALE** - Annual Loss Expectancy = SLE * ARO
